
Introduction
============

Parallel Optimizer Library searches for the *X* that minimizes *f(X)*,
preferably by using evolutionary algorithms and multithreading capabilities.

This library was created when I found myself needing a way of finding 
good solutions to a multi-dimensional problem where exhaustive search
is infeasible due to the large search-space.

It is implemented using *C++11* and its native multithreading capabilities.
My plan is to also implement *MPI* which would make this library
far more useful for computer clusters.

The library is evolving and the API should not be considered final in any way yet. However, I have been using this library for my own application since early 2012 and I am so far confident in the library's function.

How to use
==========

OptimizationWorker is the entity testing a particular solution. 
Therefore, derive your own class from that one, taking care to
set up your problem in its constructor and to calculate your
fitness-function in OptimizationWorker.fitnessFunction.

Choose an appropriate MasterOptimizer, for example the ParticleSwarmOptimizer,
and call its MasterOptimizer.optimize() to start the search for a solution.

When done, retrieve best solution with MasterOptimizer.getBestParameters().

Example
=======

There is an example implementation of the Rosenbrock-problem in 
example/rosenbrock.cpp. Build the example code with waf using

	./waf build_release

The compiled binary is found at build/release/rosenbrock

Documentation
=============

Documentation is generated by doxygen through

	doxygen

Todo
====

- MPI-support
- Auto-tuning of PSO-swarm.
- Exhaustive search for reference.
- Add regression tests

 
LICENSE
=======

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2013 Anders Bennehag

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining 
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without 
limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, 
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, 
and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, 
subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be 
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. 
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR 
ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF 
CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

